1. pseudo-classes are used to add special effects to some selectors. You do not need to use JavaScript or any other script to use those effects.

Syntax:

selector:pseudo-class {property: value}

CSS classes can also be used with pseudo-classes -

selector.class:pseudo-class {property: value}

2. The most commonly used pseudo-classes are as follows -

Value			Description
:link			Use this class to add special style to an unvisited link.
:visited		Use this class to add special style to a visited link.
:hover			Use this class to add special style to an element when you mouse over it.
:active			Use this class to add special style to an active element.
:focus			Use this class to add special style to an element while the element has focus.
:first-child	Use this class to add special style to an element that is the first child of some other element.
:lang			Use this class to specify a language to use in a specified element.


3. While defining pseudo-classes in a <style>...</style> block, following points should be noted -

---- a:hover MUST come after a:link and a:visited in the CSS definition in order to be effective.

---- a:active MUST come after a:hover in the CSS definition in order to be effective.

---- Pseudo-class names are not case-sensitive.

---- Pseudo-class are different from CSS classes but they can be combined.



Examples:
---------

1. The :link pseudo-class: The following example demonstrates how to use the :link class to set the link color. Possible values could be any color name in any valid format.

Ex:


2. The :visited pseudo-class: The following is the example which demonstrates how to use the :visited class to set the color of visited links. Possible values could be any color name in any valid format.

Ex:


3. The :hover pseudo-class: The following example demonstrates how to use the :hover class to change the color of links when we bring a mouse pointer over that link. Possible values could be any color name in any valid format.

Ex:

4. The :active pseudo-class: The following example demonstrates how to use the :active class to change the color of active links. Possible values could be any color name in any valid format.


Ex: